All right.
In our last section, we discussed how we can give the ability for the large language model with the
tool bindings to have an external tools like Wikipedia or internal custom methods like addition, subtraction,
multiplication.
And it gave us the answer that we're looking for.
Amazing.
Uh, but we actually did a tool execution logic within our own custom code, because the LLM can anyways
choose the correct tools and it selects that, but it doesn't have the ability to execute it unless
until we create like a prompt.
Remember that's what was really happening in our last section.
So we ended up writing a tool execution logic.
I mean, we created a prompt which has got the tool to be executed and the response from the tool invoke
method.
And then we bounded that in the message, and then we pass it as a prompt to the large language model,
which can then give us the output which is looking for amazing.
But now we're going to remove that logic from here, and we're going to bring that our, uh, agents
to do that operation for us, because I agents has the ability to do the selection of the tools based
on the tool binding and route the query to the right tool, which is amazing.
It's not going to route, but it's also going to execute that for us.
So the the number of lines of code that you're going to be writing over here is going to be tremendously
less compared to what that we have wrote before.
So you'll notice that now if I ask what is the sum of two and four and who is the current president
of USA in 2025, then I'm asking two questions over here, and you will notice that the large language
model is going to ask that to the agent.
And the agent is going to take care of every single operation that you have, and it is going to call
the the available tools that is been bound with this particular large language model.
And it's going to execute them one by one, and it is going to create that response for you, and it
is going to give you both the responses is like this.
This is fabulous, right?
Because you don't even have to write the logics like how you wrote before, and you actually are going
to be relying on the agent, which is going to do all the heavy lifting for you to to do those operations.
Already.
Most of the heavy decision making operation is taken care by this reasoning.
Large language model engine.
And now we are going to use this AI agent on top of it, which is going to simplify our code even further.
That is the power of agents, guys.
And that is why I wanted you to understand this details before, so that we can cover the agents even
further in a better fashion.
So let's see how we can actually achieve the entire operation in this particular section.
So the first thing is we are going to use our agents.
So for doing that I'm going to create another folder here.
I'm going to call this as section seven.
Uh I'm going to call this as agents.
Uh sorry.
This uh section six could have been a tools rather agent itself because we have not really talked anything
about the agents yet.
This is called the tools.
I don't know why I just gave it like agents there.
Uh, I want to rename that to tools.
Sorry about that.
Uh, and over here I'm going to create an agent.
So I'm going to create a new Jupyter node.
I'm going to save this.
And I'm going to call this as agents over here.
Uh, and I'm going to start working from here on.
But guess what.
I'm going to copy paste some of the code as usual from here, uh, to this guy, select the kernel.
Uh, and I also need to close this one.
I don't need it.
Uh, and look at that.
These are all just failing because I need to select the kernel.
So this is the existing, uh, section code that I'm trying to run over here, just in case.
So that it all have all the response while you get the, uh, code from the source code repo from the
course.
Cool.
It's all working.
I'm gonna close this guy, and we are back to the agents over here.
And if I execute this, this is just going to work.
Fine.
Amazing.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy paste some of the code that I have already written
from the tools anyways because that is required, which is the, uh, which is the Wikipedia as well
as uh, the custom tools that we have built before.
So I am going to need all of them from the previous section.
So I'm going to say, uh, bringing uh, back the code from previous section for tools, uh, binding.
Add the code, and I'm going to bring all the code that we have got.
So this is required I'm going to bring the Wikipedia.
And I also have built the custom tools.
So I'm going to write that as well.
In the same block.
We don't have to create like a separate blog for that matter, just this one.
And this is going to be here.
So we have got the Wikipedia and all the tools that we have built.
And I have mapped that with the tools array over here.
Fine.
This is the only code that I require.
And then all these logics from thereon that we wrote is all not required, but we are going to be using
the agents to do it for us over here.
So let's see what change is going to happen.
So I'm going to add a markdown I'm going to say agents code.
Uh and over here I'm going to start writing the code.
So for working with agents I'm going to call the Lang chain dot agents.
And I'm going to import uh, two classes.
Probably one is the initialize two methods.
One is the initialize agent.
And there is a class called as agent type.
So we need both of them over here.
Uh, and I need to create a variable as agent, and I'm going to call the initialize agent.
And over here I need to supply a few things.
So as you can see it needs a sequence of tools like base tools.
So tools is nothing but our tools that we have got.
So I'm just going to say tools as tool.
Uh and then we also have got the LM.
So I'm going to say LM is equal to the local LM that we have got.
And the agent is going to be the agent type.
So I need to pass an agent type here.
And I need to pass the agent type as structured.
Uh chat zero short react description.
The reason why I'm choosing this one is because our methods that we have got is actually going to accept,
uh, like, just like two integer over here.
So we need to structure the calling of the tools before I pass the message to the tools itself.
If not, our tool is just going to fail abruptly.
So for instance, if I'm going to use like something called a zero shot react description, that the
code is just going to fail because it is going to because our method, like the custom tools that we
have written over here, expects these value as a structured input.
So if there is not not a structured input comes in, then our agent is just going to fail.
And because our tools will not support that.
And that's why we need to have this structured chat zero react description.
Right.
And then I'm going to add a verbose here, uh, just in case so that I get the, the result, uh, in
the verbose fashion.
So you can see what's really happening with the, with the agent while it is executing them.
Right.
That's the agent declaration using the initialize agent method.
And now fun part Query and I'm going to say, what's the sum of three and four, right.
I'm going to ask this question.
And remember last section we were actually if we try to call this query and if we pass it to the the
the agent, it couldn't able to answer the question for us.
But now look at that.
I am not even bounding the large language model with the the tools that we have got using the bind tools
method, like how I have did, uh, over here, like lm dot bind tools method.
I'm not even doing that over here because the binding is really happening over here with the agents.
I'm just going to pass the raw agent we have got.
And this guy, the agent, is going to do all these heavy lifting for us.
It's going to choose.
It's going to bind the tools.
And also it's going to call the right tool for us.
And it's also going to Uh, invoke the right tool and execute it for us.
So look at that.
All the heavy lifting that we were doing before with our custom code is all going to be taken care by
this agent code itself.
And now I'm going to just say, uh, sorry, I'm just going to say the result is equal to I'm going
to call the agent Dot.
So you can call the invoke method or the run method doesn't matter whichever it is.
And I'm going to pass the query over here and I'm going to print the result over here.
Uh I'll save this.
And now I'm going to run this code over here.
But before I actually run that I just noticed that this is not tool, but this is tools that we need
to call.
Sorry about that.
And now let's try to run this code.
And you will notice that the moment I run this code it is just going to run fine.
Look at that.
It is.
The agent is now calling the agent executor chain and it is running the action and it looks.
Look at that.
It has found the action the add numbers tool that it has to.
Call and has passed the action input as A is three and B as four, and has the observation as seven.
And then now this agent is thinking okay, I know what to respond.
And then it is writing the final answer as the sum of three and four is seven.
And then it has finished the chain, and it has given me the answer as the sum of three and four is
seven.
Look at that.
The agent is doing all these operations for us over here magically, and we don't have to do anything
over there.
And now you have got the idea, like how this is working.
And if I'm going to ask the question, uh, did Donald Trump won the 2024 presidential
election?
And now if I try executing it, you will notice that it is going to call the Wikipedia tool this time,
and it is running the action there, and it has got the observation.
So Donald Trump, who served 4,050% in 2017, includes implementation, blah blah, blah.
And now it's again doing one more action because it looks like the answer was not what it is looking
for.
The agent is looking for.
Now it's doing one more run and then it is giving me an answer.
So therefore, Donald Trump was indeed the winner of 2024 presidential election.
There we go.
Look at that now.
It has did a lot of observation in here.
And finally, it could able to figure out that Donald Trump is actually a president of 2024 election.
So he has won the election over there.
So now if I go back to our Lang Smith over here and let's see what's really happening there.
Look at that.
We have got the agent executor comes in this time.
And look at this such big gigantic output coming up from the agent executor.
The agent executor is a structured chat zero shot react description and it is passing.
We are passing this particular message and it is going to ask this particular um is going to get this
output, but it is calling an LM chain behind the scene.
And look at that.
This chain has got uh, is calling this particular LM, uh, the chat.
Uh olama LM and then it is going to get this particular response, and it's going to call the tool name,
and the action is input, uh, over here.
And it is also going to, uh, pass this particular action for the Wikipedia and is calling the Wikipedia
tool.
And then again, it is calling the chain or chat or llama to get the right answer because it thought
it thought two times, if you remember.
And then it is getting the answer they're looking for.
Look at the how many number of tokens being spent this time 3830.
Which is crazy because last time while we did it, it was a bit straightforward, if I'm remembering
correctly, it was around how many tokens that we spent.
Uh, yeah.
I think for the Wikipedia, uh, we spent just 5.18 token and in total was 1000.
Ah, yeah, it was 1355 tokens for these tools.
But with the agent we are spending a lot of tokens there because it is doing quite a lot of different
operation.
Guess what?
I'm going to change the question a bit this time as well.
So I'm going to say, uh, what is the sum of uh, two and four?
And did Donald Trump see, uh, and did Donald Trump win the won the 2024 presidential election?
I'm going to say this and I'm going to say structure the response for me in JSON format.
I'm asking so many things this time, and I'm gonna run this particular code.
Look at that.
Now the agent executed, chain executes again, and it calls the add numbers.
There is an observation of six.
And then it's going to call Wikipedia.
And then it does that as well.
And there is this final chain comes in and it is going to respond it for us over here.
Unfortunately this is not in JSON format though, but it has given me both the answers.
See that 24 the sum of two and four uh, four is six.
As Donald Trump has not won 2024 presidential election.
Crazy.
He did win, but I don't know why this is giving the wrong answer there.
Um, maybe I need to ask in a different way because, uh, Donald Trump won 24 presidential election,
uh, and became a president, uh, in 2025.
Probably not sure the agent was giving up so early this time.
Let me try to run this again.
So it's first calling the Wikipedia this time, instead of really calling that sum of two and four.
Look at that.
Ah.
Why this is wrongly answering this question.
I have no idea why this is happening.
And he says Kamala Harris won in 2026 with 226 electoral vote.
This is hallucination, guys.
This is not how the the AI agent should respond.
But now if I go to the AI agent over here, you will notice that this agent has got, uh, a lot of
things over here.
Look at that.
It's just doing, uh, the calling of the ad number.
It's also calling the Wikipedia.
They're like two tools.
It's been calling, uh, in one single time, and then it's responding in order to figure out this particular
failing, uh, failing action there, we need to probably write a better chat prompt to get the answer
for us over there.
So which we are going to be doing in our next lecture.
But you got the idea how this particular, uh, agent is really responding to us over here.